hey this is pressure Locker a
marshmallow has the shape of a cylinder
it has a diameter of five and a height
of three a desert is made with 24
marshmallows the bottom layer consists
of three rows of four marshmallows a top
layer consists of exactly the same
arrangement marshmallows are placed on
top of the bottom layer the dessert is
completed when chocolate is poured to
exactly fill the gaps between the
marshmallows this is a side view of the
dessert here's a top view of the dessert
chocolate exactly fills the gaps between
the marshmallows the question is what is
the volume of chocolate this problem was
asked to grade 12 students in Australia
can you figure it out give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
the main principle is that the volume of
the chocolate is equal to the area of a
cross-section of chocolate times the
height of chocolate the dessert consists
of two layers of marshmallows each which
have a height of three the total height
of the chocolate will therefore be six
so the volume is equal to the area of a
single cross-section times six we can
see the cross-section from the top view
this forms the shape of six different
gaps between the marshmallows each of
the six gaps are identical we therefore
can simplify this to say the volume is
equal to six times the area of a single
gap multiplied by the height of six so
the volume is equal to 36 times the area
of the single gap between four
marshmallows what is that area we start
out by having four marshmallows
each marshmallow has a diameter of five
which means each circle has a radius of
five halves we now draw a square that
connects the center of these four
circles the square side length consists
of the radius of two adjacent circles
the side length of the square is
therefore equal to the diameter of the
circle so the side length is equal to
five the area between the gaps is equal
to the area of this square minus the
area of four quarter circles so we can
write this as the area of the gap is
equal to the area of the square minus
the area of four quarter circles now
four quarter circles together make one
whole circle the area of the square is
equal to s squared and the area of the
circle is equal to PI R squared
this means the area the square is equal
to 25 and the area the circle is equal
to 25 pi divided by 4 therefore the area
of the gap is equal to the difference
between these two areas we can
substitute this back into our volume
formula and then simplify to get our
answer that the volume is equal to 900
minus 225 pi which is approximately 190
3.1 did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch them on my
blog mind your decisions which you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media at
pressure Locker and if you like this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description